Previously on "The 100"...
The only way to save
both our people
is if we join together.
Without someone on the inside to
lower their defenses,
an army's useless.
You should go.
I can get you
through the tunnels.
How about getting
me down, Maya?
Don't move!
Agh!
Take him
into custody.
I'm sorry. They take their orders
from me now.
Put my father
in quarantine.
Yes, Mr. president.
They're already
using their blood,
and things are gonna
get ugly in here real fast.
No!
I have a message
for your leader.
We're coming for him.
Let our people go,
and we'll let you live.
It's an 8-hour walk
back to Mount Weather.
You're gonna do it in 6.
Ugh!
Sir, you're too far...
From the door,
way too far.
Just breathe.
Don't worry about me.
You did it,
didn't you, sir? Huh?
The marrow treatment,
it worked.
We did it,
lieutenant.
The ground is ours.
We've been
locked up for hours.
If it was Bellamy--
It was Bellamy.
I'm telling you
he's here.
All right.
It doesn't make
any sense.
I know what I saw.
Not again.
Back up, everyone.
Back up.
Move!
No, no!
Hey, hey!
Get off her!
No, not her.
She needs more time
to recover.
This one.
No! Wait, wait!
No, please! No!
Stop!
You can't keep
doing this to us.
President Wallace said
we could go.
That president Wallace
is no longer in command.
He had to step down
for health reasons.
I'm sorry it has to
be like this.
I hope you know you're
all incredibly special to us.
Clear out. Go.
Has he
checked in yet?
No.
You worried someone's
gonna try and take a shot at you
inside the ark?
Wait outside, Ryder.
Lexa's orders.
Whatever, Clarke.
He's late.
What if something's
happened to him?
He'll be fine.
You've been busy.
Why are you focusing
on the dam?
I told you acid fog
was our priority.
Until Bellamy gets eyes
on their dispersal system,
there's only so much
I can do.
Fine. Tell me
about the dam.
Can we cut off
their power?
Maybe. I'm still playing
with a few things.
How many of these
have you made?
Only two so far, but--
Two? That's not
enough.
There will be
reapers everywhere.
High-frequency tone generators
don't grow on trees, Clarke.
Wick is scrounging
for parts.
Raven, I am about
to leave for Tondc,
where Lexa and the heads
of all 12 grounder clans
are waiting for me to
tell them we're ago,
only we're not a go
because they still have acid fog,
and we only have
two tone generators.
Hey. We'll be ready.
We will.
Ark station, do you read me?
Anybody there?
Bellamy,
you're late.
Every 3 hours means
every 3 hours.
Are you through?
Have you found
the source of the acid fog?
No. That's gonna
have to wait.
What? No. Nothing is
more important than that.
Our friends are.
They're starting to
take them from the dorm
one at a time
every few hours.
Taking them where?
I don't know.
We tried to follow them,
but they went
to a classified level.
Maya borrowed the schematics
of the vent system
from her boss,
and I'm still trying
to find a way in.
Anything?
I think I found
a path,
but it's gonna
be tight.
Here's the walkie
raven asked for
and the earbud.
We're going to make him mobile
so he can talk to us from anywhere.
Bellamy, you have
to find them.
That's the plan.
If you don't,
all of this is for nothing.
Yeah.
I'll be right back.
I thought were going
to Tondc.
Plans have changed.
I'm staying here.
The commander's
expecting you.
Our people inside
Mount Weather are in trouble.
I'm not going anywhere
until I know they're OK.
And what can you do
for them from here?
You'll go to Tondc
in my place.
Lexa respects you.
I'll get there soon
as I can.
Clarke, wait.
Put it away.
Clarke, being
a good leader means
knowing which
battles to fight.
And which to delegate.
I know.
Please I need you to go
to Tondc.
Fine.
I'll go.
Thank you.
What is it?
Kane will explain.
Perhaps your mother
should go.
She is still the chancellor
after all.
Which is why she's
needed here.
Heavy lies
the crown.
She shouldn't be
wearing the crown,
and you shouldn't be
backing her up.
What is that?
A note.
Thelonious is gone.
He told Sinclair to wait
two days
before giving that
to us.
The city of light.
He says he's coming
back to save us again.
He took 12 people,
12 guns.
You can't go after him.
We can't spare the men.
Oh, don't worry about it.
Clarke wouldn't let me
even if I wanted to.
Godspeed, Thelonious.
Sir, do you
recognize anything?
Their tent was
near here.
I'm sure of it.
What's the matter?
You guys got someplace better to be?
You see anyone?
We mean you no harm.
Do you speak English?
What do you want?
Nothing. It looks like
you could use a hand.
What are you doing
out here alone?
My brother and I
were on our way to the city of light,
and wastelanders
attacked.
They took our horse,
all our water, everything.
They killed him.
This cart is all
I have left.
Give her some water.
Whoa, no, no,
no, no, no.
We barely have enough for
ourselves here.
Touch me again,
and I'll end you.
In a noncriminal way.
It's OK.
We're on our way
to the city of light, as well.
What's your name?
Emori.
Everyone
in the dead zone
is looking for
the city of light.
Almost no one
finds it.
I can get you there.
If you pull my cart.
Done.
Caspian, you're
on the first shift.
Thanks
for the water.
It's, uh--it was
no problem.
OK.
So tell us where you're at now.
I'm at an intersection.
Which way?
OK. He just passed
the air filtration system
on this floor,
which puts him about here.
Bellamy, we think
you're close.
The lab should be
up ahead.
Any chance you can be
more specific?
Never mind.
I got this.
Is that a drill?
Bone marrow
extraction.
You ready
for the last treatment
you'll ever need,
lieutenant?
You have no idea.
I've waited
my whole life
to breathe fresh air.
That's Emerson.
Let's get back
to this secret army
that she claims to have.
She tell you anything
that might
help us find it?
Stop drilling, please.
The window for extraction
after death
is incredibly
short.
I only need a minute.
No, sir.
Nothing about the army.
She did say she was
coming for you
and that if we let
her people go
she'll let our
people live.
It's a little late
for that.
I'm sorry
I failed, sir.
No, it's OK. We'll
finish the job tonight.
Whitman just radioed in.
Apparently there's
a war council meeting
happening tonight
in one of their villages,
and all the leaders
are gonna be there.
Sir, I feel good.
Let me take a team out
and support Whitman.
No. He has less chance
of being spotted if he's alone.
Sir, Whitman's good,
but he can't take out
that many targets alone.
Which is why we're
gonna use a missile.
This time, we're
not gonna miss.
Please tell me
you heard all that.
We heard it.
We have to warn them.
Did Kane take
a radio?
No. This is the only
unjammed frequency.
We have to keep it
open for Bellamy.
If I leave now,
I can make it there in time.
In time to be
blown up, you mean.
When I get back,
I want to know
our friends are safe
and the acid fog is down.
Can you handle that?
Yeah, we can
handle it. Go.
Clarke, wait.
Octavia was in Tondc
when I left.
Is--Is she, um...
She's here.
She's safe.
OK. Good.
Be safe, too.
I will.
Octavia's in Tondc
for the meeting.
Why'd you lie?
Bellamy can't be
distracted.
It helps no one.
Hey.
Don't get blown up.
Last time, they
stepped foot here,
we were at war
with each other.
Now the 12 clans
fight together.
Remember this day.
You may never see one like it again.
You haven't heard
a word I've said.
Sorry.
Bellamy left Lincoln
in the tunnels two days ago,
and he should be back--
Lincoln is no longer
your concern.
Look. I've done everything you've
asked me to do,
and I'll continue
to do so,
but what you're
asking now is impossible.
I'm not asking.
We're at war, and a warrior
does not mourn
those she's lost
till after the battle is won.
Go stand watch
with the other seconds.
Assassins
from the Mountain
will try again.
We need to be ready.
So I got to ask.
What made you ditch
your home
and risk your life
to cross the beach from hell?
It doesn't matter.
No. Come on.
Take my mind
off all the fun
we're having.
It wasn't my
decision to leave.
Kicked out?
OK. Now I'm interested.
What'd you do?
If I told you,
you would not look
at me the same.
Maybe.
Then again, I might
surprise you.
What about you?
How did you end up
in the dead zone?
I could tell you
the gory details,
but since you're one
of the few people on this planet
who doesn't hate me
at the moment,
I don't think
I want to blow it.
Now I'm interested.
OK. You really
want to know?
I killed two people,
tried to kill
two more.
I had my reasons,
but nobody cared.
I'm the bad guy.
Told you I'd blow it.
My people saw me
as a stain
on the bloodline,
something to erase.
Then screw them.
I wouldn't cover
it up.
I think it's
pretty badass.
Liar.
Get back!
I said get back.
Here we go. Come on.
Like we talked about!
Link up!
This one.
All right. Let's go.
Everybody now!
Clear the way!
Aah!
Hey!
Let go of me!
Are you trying to
get yourself killed?
Bellamy?
Just shut up
and listen.
They're killing them.
Next time they come,
you have to fight back
harder than this,
do you understand?
Here. Take this.
Get everyone ready.
Ready for what?
What's the plan?
I'm working on it.
Find Dante.
He's on our side. He'll help us.
OK.
Hey! Everything
OK over there?
Yes, sir.
Unh!
Help!
Please, somebody. No!
Your evening meal,
president Wallace.
Who are you?
Jasper sent me.
We need your help.
Your son is killing
my friends.
I'm a prisoner,
same as them.
A prisoner who knows
every inch of this Mountain,
every security measure.
Who's helping you?
That's not important
right now.
After Clarke escaped,
I had all exits
fortified
and put under
extra surveillance.
My son has no doubt
changed
all access and entrance
codes by now.
Your friends will never
even make it off of level 5.
I won't let them
die here.
I'm sorry. I can't
help them escape.
But I may be able
to buy them some time.
Hyah! Hyah!
Clarke,
you made it.
I need you to take me
to Lexa.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Is Bellamy ready?
Did he get
the acid fog down?
He's working on it.
Whitman
to Mount Weather command.
Final target has landed.
All targets
accounted for.
Copy that.
Standing by
for the president.
Clarke of
the sky people has
honored us
with her presence.
I'm sorry I'm late,
commander.
You made good time.
I assume the kids
at Mount Weather are OK.
For now.
Can we talk
in private?
Yes. This way.
A missile?
You're sure?
Yes. We have to start
evacuating now.
No.
What do you mean
no, Lexa?
If we evacuate,
they'll know we have
a spy
inside their walls.
Not necessarily.
We can't risk it.
What's the point
of having an inside man
if we can't act
on what he tells us?
Is the acid fog
disabled?
Is our sleeping army
uncaged?
Then Bellamy's job
is not done.
Without him, we can't
win this war.
So what are you saying?
We just do nothing,
let them bomb us?
It will be a blow,
but our army will be
safe inside the woods,
and it will
inspire them.
And what about us?
We slip away
right now.
Put this on.
Lexa, wait.
You don't understand.
I provoked Mount Weather.
I sent a message to distract
them from Bellamy.
Clarke, sometimes, you have to
concede a battle to win a war.
No. We can inform
the leaders of the clans,
pick a rendezvous
point in the woods.
Each of them can
slip out separately.
And how many more people
will they tell?
Where do we draw
the line?
Well, then cancel
the meeting,
start a fire, something!
Clarke, we don't have
time for this.
No, no!
This is wrong!
It's also our only choice,
and you know it.
You could have warned
everyone up there,
but you didn't.
You said nothing,
not even to your own people.
This is war, Clarke.
People die.
You showed true
strength today.
Don't let emotions
stop you now.
It's time to go.
Chancellor, look out!
Hold your fire!
Wait! Whoa, whoa.
Everybody
put your weapons
and supplies
in the cart,
and nobody
gets hurt.
If we give you our supplies,
we'll all die out here.
If you don't,
you'll die right here.
Do as she says.
Now!
How's your faith
holding up, chancellor?
Shut up.
Unwavering.
You don't want
to do this.
Stop walking!
We all came out here
searching for a better life,
same as you.
Maybe we can find it
if we work together.
Thanks...
But no.
Now, everyone, back away
from the cart
and get
on your knees.
Now!
Do what she says.
You, too.
Oh, what a surprise.
You're just like everyone else.
Good luck, John.
Talk to me. What do you see?
Close your eyes.
Imagine
a bottomless pit.
Just stick with it.
According to Dante's
coordinates,
you're almost there.
What's happening
on your end?
Did they evacuate
Tondc?
Don't know yet,
but it's Clarke.
She'll get it done.
Just concentrate on squeezing
your ass through that vent
and stop worrying
about your sister.
Octavia's in Tondc?
She's there?
Raven.
She's gonna be OK.
Clarke fired out
of here.
She's gonna get
there on time.
How could you keep
this from me?
Clarke was trying
to protect you.
Listen. You still have
a job to do.
I know you're worried
about Octavia,
but you have to focus.
Let's just get this done.
Should be
at the meeting,
not watching
the trees with you.
Quiet. There's
someone out there.
This one's mine,
sky girl.
Atohl?
Lincoln?
What are you doing?
Get away from him.
Gah! I said get
away from him!
You don't
understand.
I can't fight it.
Yes, you can.
We can.
I betrayed
your brother.
He's a prisoner in the Mountain
because of me.
Lincoln, I don't know
what happened between you two,
but Bellamy made it,
he's fine.
We've got our inside man.
Now I need you
to come with me.
Unh!
Grounders don't
give up.
We fight.
Either you get up
and we fight this,
or you crawl away
and die alone like a coward.
It's your choice.
John.
Come on.
We got to go.
There.
He's up. It's about time.
Quiet, Caspian.
You all right?
If he's not,
we're leaving him here.
I'm OK.
It's time to go home.
And where exactly
is that?
Sir, I know you're trying to
take us to a better place,
but look around.
We've got no food,
we've got no water,
and no idea
how to find it.
Due north.
She said due north.
What is due north,
John?
She was talking about
the city of light.
Did she say that?
No.
Did she say
how far due north?
No. She didn't, but she
wouldn't be sending us there
if we couldn't
make it.
Who's that?
The liar and the thief
who robbed us
and knocked you out?
Sir, I really hope you
are not considering this.
John, we have no weapons
and no rations.
If we go north
and you're wrong,
then all of us will die.
If we turn back now,
we live.
So that's it?
We've reached
the point of no return?
You just want to
give up?
I didn't say that.
You didn't not
say it either.
That is the north star.
After you.
The rest of you need
to decide for yourselves,
but either way,
we'll come back for you
when we find it.
Sir, this is
a mistake.
You're not gonna find it,
you're not gonna make it.
I believe...
This is what they call
having faith, John.
Faith?
Nah. Just have
nothing better to do.
Pal needs your
auth code, sir.
OK.
Activated.
She's live.
Whitman, are you
in position? Over.
Affirmative, sir.
Generating target
coordinates now. Over.
Clarke, we have
to keep moving.
We're not
far enough away.
The last time they
used a missile,
it was
before I was born.
According to legend,
it left a hole in the woods
you could not
see across.
Now let's go.
What if we made
them miss?
You're not listening.
With a weapon like that,
you can't miss.
Yes, you can. I heard them talking
about a spotter,
someone in the field
to aim the missile.
If we could just
find him.
No. What's she
doing here?
Clarke, you can't
go back.
Clarke!
North 38 degrees,
54 minutes, .25 seconds.
Copy.
By west 77 degrees,
2 minutes, .12 seconds.
Over.
We're locked in.
Standing by
for confirmation.
Mom, what are you
doing here?
I told you to stay
back at camp.
Enough, Clarke.
I'm the chancellor.
I don't need your
permission to go--
No. We have to
leave now.
What is going on?
We can't be here.
Mom, I am begging
you. Please.
Come on.
Where's the commander?
Where's Clarke?
I don't know.
Last time I saw them,
they were heading downstairs.
They're not there now.
We should search
the woods.
I agree.
I'll tell the others.
Final targets confirmed.
We are go for launch.
On your command, sir.
Fire.
Bird is in the air.
Impact in 10, 9...
Wait!
No. We can't stop.
There's no time.
I am not taking
a step further
until you tell me
what is happening.
5, 4, 3,
2, 1.
Mom.
Mom, are you OK?
Oh, my God.
Come on.
We can't be here.
We--we have to go.
You knew.
You knew, and you
let this happen?
We had no choice.
So many people.
Our people.
No. We had to
protect Bellamy.
Without him--
Oh, stop it!
I don't want
to hear it.
Mom...
Tell me this
was Lexa.
Please, Clarke.
Please tell me
this wasn't you.
I wish I could.
You can't tell
anyone about this.
If anyone finds out
that we knew,
the alliance
of the 12 clans will break.
We'll lose the war.
You crossed
the line.
Mom.
Their blood is
on your hands,
and even if we win,
I'm afraid you won't
be able to wash it off this time.
Don't worry.
Your secret is
safe with me.
Mom... Wait.
Mom!
What's taking
Bellamy so long?
I don't know.
Maybe they caught him.
No. He'll figure
a way out, I know he will.
Jasper, it's already
been 4 hours.
The guards will be
back any second.
They're gonna take
someone else.
No. Listen to me.
Everyone, we stick
to the plan.
They're not taking
anyone else
out of this room
without a fight!
Get ready.
Disperse.
This one.
Yes, ma'am.
No! No! No!
Hey! Get your
hands off him!
- Enough!
- Don't move!
Take him instead.
No, you can't!
Get up.
No!
Jasper! Not Jasper!
Search the rest.
Make sure there are
no other weapons.
Yes, ma'am.
You heard her. Let's go!
As soon as we're
in the lab,
I want him prepped.
We start immediately.
Copy that. Transporting
asset, elevator "C."
Ugh. Something's wrong.
Unh! Radiation.
We need to get
out of here.
My skin!
Containment breach
level 5.
Seal the whole
floor.
Bellamy.
You got to pull the outside air in
to reverse
the air filtration system.
Just tell me how we know
if it's even working.
Containment breach.
I'd say it's working.
Thank you,
Mr. president.
Let's go!
This is our chance!
Everybody move!
Take the level!
Monty, get the cameras.
Miller, get their guns.
Go!
No. You can't.
I hope you know that you're
incredibly special to us.
Who helped them?
I don't know what
you're talking about.
You still have
influence,
people who believe
in you,
and one of them
irradiated level 5 today.
I want to know
who it is.
It was me.
Well, you and whoever
helped you
killed 11
of our people today,
and for what?
We're gonna retake
their level soon enough.
Get out
of my sight, Cage.
I know we disagree...
But this will all
be over soon.
I bombed Tondc today.
My father installed that silo
to protect us, Cage.
Why can't you see that that is
exactly what I'm trying to do?
With Clarke
and the commander dead,
the savages can go back
to killing each other,
and then we can retake
the ground.
And it only cost you
your souls!
He's ready.
What are you doing?
Freeing you.
Restrain him.
Easy, easy.
Do not hurt him.
The marrow kicks in
in 48 hours.
You'll thank me
someday.